IOS 8 has a few more new features that were introduced in 2017 compared to yes 7.
In this video we'll just go over the important ones.
So the very first one is string padding.
We have new functions that we can add to strings which is parts start and pad and now to demonstrate
this.
Let's go into the console and let's just do a turtle.
And we'll do a pad start.
Of 10 if I do this I get turtle with 10 spaces in front of it if I do pad and get turtle with 10 spaces
after it.
And this is useful just for aligning characters of strings.
If you want specific padding for the again very very simple easy to pick up just another string method
that we received.
All right let's go into the second one.
The second one that we got is something called trailing commas in functions.
Parameter lists and calls.
What does that mean.
Well now I can do something like const fun A B C D and add a comma at the end and if I do a function
but let's just say console dot logs a just a silly simple function I can now run this function like
one two three four and then a comma at the end.
And this is still valid javascript if I round this you see that it works.
Console log a which is one gets logged.
Now why would this be useful at all.
The main reason is when you start getting really really big parameter lists you'll see a lot of people
doing things similar to this
just to make things a little bit cleaner.
And when you start doing this every time you add a new parameter it's a lot easier but also in get hub
when you make changes it actually makes the difference.
The green and the red differences.
A lot cleaner.
So it's just syntactic and just make things look a little bit nicer.
Again you normally wouldn't want to do something like this but maybe when you have a long parameter
list like that the ending comma is now valid and it won't give out an error right.
Let's look at the next one the next one is we have object that values
and object dot entries and these are very very useful because before these we had something called Object
dot cheese and object are keys allowed us to do something similar to arrays but on object.
So for example if we had an object that lets say we'll have an object and this object will have user
name 0 Santa we have user name 1 Rudolph and we also have the user name to Mr. Grinch
now looking at this object because it's not an array we can't do the map or filter or reduce but this
is kind of an ugly object.
And this illustrates a good point sometimes when you're working with servers you'll get two objects
that you don't really like or you don't want to work with but you still want to iterate over the and
before we can do something like this with object keys we make a little bit more space over here so we
can see.
I could do object keys and in here will throw the object and now I can use it like an array.
I'll go one by one.
Like an array.
So it's as if it's an array but except it has property and values.
So let's say we wanted to do a for each loop and for each key that is for each key in the array.
So for each user name we also have the index so that is 0 1 to let's wrap this in brackets
and now within here we can say console dot log key and then object key.
So now we're grabbing the object with the key username.
So if a console dialog this let's copy and paste this clean this up a bit and I see that I have user
name Santa.
User name 1.
Rudolph user name 2.
Mr. Grinch.
And that's one way for us to iterate or loop through objects but with object dot entries things become
a little bit easier.
For example we can do object must make more space we can do object of values and the object of values.
If I do a for each year I simply grab the value from the value.
I can just console the log value and now I get the value of each object that is it loops through Santa
Rudolph.
And Mr. Grinch with the entries
if I do object entries.
Well let's see what happens.
It's clear this I get an array of user named Santa User Name one Rudolph and user name two.
Mr. Grinch.
So this gives you a lot of control you get both property and value or key and value.
And you can do whatever you want with it and use for each map reduce filter all those array functions.
So let's use a real life scenario here.
Let's say we wanted to we just received this from the back and the back and just sent us a bunch of
users that they had in that database and we want to generate user names for that because we don't like
the user named Zero User Name one user name too.
You want to display name that displays the Santa with the I.D. number that is zero for Rudolph will
be one for Mr. grandchild be two.
How can we do that using our new found powers.
Well I can just simply do something with object on entries and object adding trees will have an object
that I can map over and this will give us a value.
Again remember that this will return arrays.
And here we just want to return this to a value of one because we want to grab Santa Rudolph and Mr.
Grinch.
So that is the second item in the array and then we want to add to that like a string value zero which
is the first item.
So username 0 user username 1 user name too.
And here we want to replace this is just the function that we can use on strings and we want to replace
user name with an empty string.
So what we're doing here is we're creating a new string with Santa 0 because we don't need the user
name in here.
So now even though we have an object.
We can loop through it like an array and look at that.
We have new user names Santas zero Rudolph one and Mr. Grinch too.
How cool is that so these are really really useful additions to the language especially object values
and object that entries.
You can do a lot with it but there is one big he 8 feature that has arrived at everybody's excited about
and they're called async await now it's brand new and everybody in the community is really excited about
it.
However in order to fully grasp the benefit and understand it we need an entire video on its own.
So I'll see you on that one by.